# Table of Contents
## ZIP 100 Disks
* [Equipment](https://github.com/rose-collectionservices/digital-archives/blob/master/Tier%201/Imaging/Zip_Disks.md#equipment)
* [Instructions](https://github.com/rose-collectionservices/digital-archives/blob/master/Tier%201/Imaging/Zip_Disks.md#instructions)
* [How to Remove the Disk](https://github.com/rose-collectionservices/digital-archives/blob/master/Tier%201/Imaging/Zip_Disks.md#to-remove-the-disk)

## ZIP 250 Disks
* [Equipment](https://github.com/rose-collectionservices/digital-archives/blob/master/Tier%201/Imaging/Zip_Disks.md#equipment-needed)
* [Intructions](https://github.com/rose-collectionservices/digital-archives/blob/master/Tier%201/Imaging/Zip_Disks.md#instructions-1)

---

# ZIP 100 Disks
### Equipment
#### Materials Needed:
- Iomega ZIP 100 drive (and its USB/Power cords)
- Paperclip
- Tableau USB 3.0 Bridge

#### Software Needed:
- BitCurator environment
- GuyMager

### Instructions:
1. Make sure the computer is in the BitCurator environment (see [here](https://github.com/rose-collectionservices/digital-archives/blob/master/Tier%201/Switching_BitCurator_Windows.md)) (Right click to open in a new tab)
2. Connect the USB of the ZIP drive to the USB port of the Tableau bridge, using the Iomega USB cable (white)
3. Connect the Tableau Bridge to the computer using the <span class="blue">BLUE</span> USB cable 
4. Plug in the Iomega drive to a power source using its provided power cord. A <span class="green">green</span> light should appear on the front of the drive. 
5. Plug in the bridge to its power source. 
6. Push the power button on the Tableau bridge to turn it on. All of the lights minus the Device one should be on
7. Insert your ZIP disk into the drive, with the silver bit going in first. The Device light on the bridge should then turn on once it recognizes a disk is there.  
8. Launch Guymager (Desktop\Imaging and Recovery\Guymager).
9. In the Guymager window, select the correct drive and right click to bring up the imaging menu. Select “Acquire image.”
10. Select “Expert Witness Format, sub-format Guymager (file extension .EXX)” as file format and enter basic metadata, as relevant. 
Refer to Metadata Guidelines for guidance:
- a. Under “Split,” type in an amount above what the total of the drive says it is. Ex. 5 GB on a 4GB drive, to make sure it doesn’t split.
- b. Case Number: Record ID (MSS# then _ then a successive 2 or 3 digit number)
- c. Evidence Number: Disk Number/Title
- d. Examiner: Imager’s Net ID (e.g., dwaugh, elfarr)
- e. Description: Brief description of media (e.g., collection name and type of drive it is, and number if applicable (Rita Ann Higgins flash drive 1)) and physical label, if applicable.
- f. Notes: As needed

11. Browse to directory in which newly created image will be stored.
- a. Instructions for getting to hard drive PC:
    * i. Use the browse button (...) to the right of *Image directory* to navigate to the folder created at step 5;
    * 1. NOTE: Go ```media/bcadmin/New Volume/``` to reach the hard drive properly
- b. Back in Guymager, select newly created folder as image directory.

12. Enter file name for the image. The file name should be the record ID (MSS# then _ then a successive 2 or 3 digit number). If there is a virtual disk label, include this in the file name as well (MSS#_virtual disk label_successive 2 or 3 digit number, e.g., 1061_AlicesDisk_01).
13. The information file name will automatically populate with whatever file name is entered for the image. This will be the file name for the metadata generated by Guymager.
14. Select all check boxesat the bottom(“Calculate MD5,”“Calculate SHA-1,”“Calculate SHA-256,”“Re-read source after acquisition for verifications (takes twice as long),”and “Verify image after acquisition (takestwice as long)”)
15. Hit “Start”

**NOTE:** You can check the progress of disk imaging by scrolling to the right in the Guymager window.

**NOTE:** You can review the disk image contents by right-clicking the object and selecting *Scripts > Mount Disk Image*. The disk image will be mounted on the Desktop. Double-click to open it and view files.

### How to Remove the Disk:
- The button on the front to eject the disk *DOES NOT WORK*. Instead:
- Find a paperclip from someone
- There is a small hole on the back left side of the drive
- Insert the end of the paperclip into the hole and push inwards to eject the disk. Aim for the green spring (you can see it through the top of the drive)
- If you want to do another disk, close out GuyMager, insert a new disk, and reopen

[Back to top](#table-of-contents)

---

## ZIP 250 Disks

### Equipment Needed
#### Hardware
 - Tableau TD3
 - Tableau TDPX5
 - Tableau TC2-8-R2
 - Tableau TC6-8
 - Tableau TP5 Power Supply
 - Tableau TCA-MF-BNDL-3PC, smallest size
 - ZIP 250 drive
 - USB drive
 
 ### Instructions
 #### Set-Up
 1. Connect the TDPX5 to the TD3, using the connector on the left side of the TD3
 2. Plug in the TD3 using the TP5 power supply and correct size TCA piece. THe light on the power brick 
 should turn green once connected properly
 3. Connect the ZIP 250 drive to the TDPX5 using the IDE ribbon and the IDE signal cable
 4. Plug in the USB drive into the right side of the TD3
 5. Insert the ZIP 250 disk into the drive
 6. Power on the TD3 using the power button located on it's front
 
 #### Imaging
 7. You should see icons on either side of the screen on the TD3, one on each side. 
  - This shows the device is recognizing both the ZIP drive and the USB drive. It can take a second to recognize both. 
  - The left will show TDPX5 as a label.
  - The right will show USB-Out as a label.
 8. Hit "Duplicate" on the screen
 9. Double-check the Source and Destination fields to make sure they are correct, as well as the 
 Type, File format, Examiner, and Case ID fields. 
  - To change any of these, hit "Settings" at the bottom of the screen. 
  - From there, you can edit any of the fields using the onscreen keyboard
  - To change the directory, you will need the password for the profile (found on the whiteboard in the DA Lab)
  - You can choose to have the verification on or off (this really depends on how it goes, sometimes the verification
  messes up the image completely)
 10. Once all the edits are made, hit the Back button on the bottom left of the screen
 11. Hit the large "Duplicate" button on the right side of the screen
  - It will show you the progress of duplication/image, along with the elasped time and an estimation of the time 
  remaining. Keep an eye on it for errors and such. 
12. 
 - If successful, a chime will sound when the duplication/image is complete.
 - If unsuccessful, a loud error sound will chime. 
 - Hit "Ok" on the screen. 
13. Eject the ZIP 250 disk from the drive. 
 - NOTE: To safely eject the USB drive, click on it's icon on the main screen. Scroll to the bottom and click 
  "Eject disk"
14. Power down the TD3 by holding down the power button (even if you plan on doing more disks)
 - Hit "Yes" when prompted if you are sure if you want to shut down
15. Repeat from Step 5 if you plan to do more than one ZIP 250 disk at a time. 

[Back to top](#table-of-contents)
